now
please be
seated the sitting is open the court
meets this morning to hear the state of
Israel present its single round of oral
argument on the request for the
indication of provisional measures
submitted by the Republic of South afca
Africa on 29 December 2023 in the case
concerning application of the convention
on the prevention and Punishment of the
crime of genocide in the Gaza Strip
South Africa versus Israel I shall now
give the floor to the co-agent of Israel
Mr T Becker you have the floor
exy Madame President distinguished
members of the Court
it is an honor to appear before you
again on behalf of the state of
Israel the state of Israel is singularly
aware of why the genocide
convention which has been invoked in
these procceedings was
adopted seared in our Collective memory
is the systematic murder of 6 million
Jews as part of a premeditated and
heinous program for their total
Annihilation given the Jewish people's
history and its foundational texts it is
not surprising that Israel was among the
first states to ratify the genocide
convention without
reservation and to incorporate its
Provisions in its domestic
legislation for some the promise of
never again for all peoples is a
slogan for Israel it is the highest
moral obligation
ation rapael Lin a polish jew who
witnessed the Unspeakable horrors of the
Holocaust is credited with coining the
term
genocide he helped the world recognize
that the existing legal lexicon was
simply inadequate to capture the
devastating evil that the Nazi Holocaust
unleashed the applicant has now sought
to invoke this term in the context of
Israel's conduct in a war it did not
start and did not
want a war in which Israel is defending
itself against Hamas Palestinian Islamic
Jihad and other terrorist
organizations whose brutality knows no
bounds the civilian suffering in this
war like in all wars is
tragic it it is
heartbreaking the harsh realities of the
current hostilities are made especially
agonizing for civilians given hamas's
reprehensible strategy of seeking to
maximize civilian harm to both Israelis
and
Palestinians even as Israel seeks to
minimize
it but as this court has already made
clear the genocide convention was not
designed to address the brutal impact of
intensive hostilities on the civilian
population even when the use of force
raises quote very serious issues of
international law and involves enormous
suffering and continuing loss of life
end
quote the convention was set apart to
address a malevolent crime of the most
exceptional
severity we live at a time when words
are
cheap in an age of social media and
identity Politics the temptation to
reach for the most outrageous term to
vilify and demonize has become for many
irresistible but if there is a place
where words should still
matter where truth should still matter
it is surely a court of
law the applicant has regrettably put
for the court a profoundly distorted
factual and legal
picture the entirety of its case hinges
on a deliberately curated
decontextualized and manipulative
description of the reality of current
hostilities South Africa purports to
come to this court in the lofty position
of a guardian of the interest of
humanity but in delegitimizing Israel 's
75e existence in its opening
presentation
yesterday that broad commitment to
humanity rang
Hollow and in its sweeping
counterfactual
description of the Israeli Palestinian
conflict it seemed to erase both Jewish
history and any Palestinian agency or
responsibility indeed the
delegitimization of Israel since it's
very establishment in
1948 in the applicant
submissions sounded barely
distinguishable from hamas's own
rejectionist
rhetoric it is unsurprising therefore
that in the applicant's telling both
hamas's responsibility for the situation
in Gaza and the Very Humanity of its
Israeli victims are removed from
view the attempt to weaponize the term
genocide against Israel in the present
context does more than tell the court a
grossly distorted
story and it does more than empty the
word of its unique force and special
meaning it subverts the object and
purpose of the convention itself with
ramifications for all states seeking to
defend themselves against those who
demonstrate total disdain for life and
for the law
Madame President members of the
court on Saturday October 7th a Jewish
religious
holiday thousands of Kamas and other
militants breached Israeli Sovereign
territory by sea land and air invading
over 20 Israeli communities bases and
the site of a music
festival what proceeded under the cover
of thousands of rockets fired
indiscriminately into Israel
was the wholesale Massacre
mutilation rape and Abduction of as many
citizens as the terrorists could find
before Israel's forces repelled
them openly displaying Elation they
tortured children in front of parents
and parents in front of
children burned people including infants
alive and systematically raped and
mutilated scor of women men and
children all told some 12200 people were
butchered that day more than 5,500
maimed and some 240 hostages abducted
including infants entire families
persons with disabilities and Holocaust
Survivors some of whom have since been
executed many of whom have been tortured
sexually abused and starved in
captivity representatives of the
hostages families are in this courtroom
today and we acknowledge their presence
and their boundless
suffering we know of the brutality of
October
7th not only from the harrowing
testimonies of the
survivors the unmistakable proof of
Carnage and sadism left
behind and the forensic evidence taken
at the
scene we know it because the asants
proud ly filmed and broadcast their
barbarism the events of that day are all
but ignored in the applicant
submissions but we are compelled to
share with the court some fraction of
its
horror the largest calculated mass
murder of Jews in a single day since the
Holocaust we do so not because these
acts however sadistic and systematic
release Israel of its obligations to
uphold the law as it defends its
citizens and
territory that is
unquestionable we do so because it is
impossible to understand the armed
conflict in Gaza without appreciating
the nature of the threat that Israel is
facing and the brutality and lawlessness
of the Armed Force confronting
it in the volume of materials submitted
to members of the Court access has been
provided to a portion of the raw footage
for separate
screening but I am obliged to put before
the court today some small fragment of
the scenes of unfathomable cruelty that
took place in hundreds of locations on
that horrible
day Johnny simantov a wheat farmer and
his wife
Tamar an activist for women's rights
lived in kibuts near
Oz when the rocket fire started they hid
in the safe room with their
four-year-old son om and their
six-year-old Twins arbel and
shakar during their Rampage Kamas
militant set fire to their
house Johnny texted his sister
Rene they're here they're burning us
we're
suffocating the whole family was burned
alive to
ashes making DNA identification
especially
difficult a survivor of the Nova Music
Festival Massacre testified to police to
witnessing a Kamas militant brutally
raping a young woman as another militant
cut off her breast and toyed with it a
second militant then raped her
again shooting her in the head while
still inside
her in one video recorded by a home
surveillance system a Hamas militant
throws a grenade into a safe room where
a father and his two sons have rushed to
hide the father is killed the two sons
are injured and bleeding as a militant
pulls them into the living
room one child can be heard screaming to
his
brother why am I
alive I can't see anything they're going
to kill
us the militant casually opens the
fridge takes out a bottle and
drinks and then there is this recording
from
[Music]
kib
as
stated none of these atrocities absolve
Israel of its obligations under the
law but they do enable the court to
appreciate Three core aspects of the
present proceedings which the applicant
has obscured from
view
first that if there have been acts that
may be characterized as
genocidal then they have been per
perpetrated against
Israel if there is a concern about the
obligations of States under the genocide
convention then it is in relation to
their
responsibilities to act against hamas's
proudly declared agenda of
annihilation which is not a secret and
is not in
doubt the annihilationist language of
kamasa charter is repeated
regularly it is expressed no less
chillingly in the words of senior Kamas
member razi Hamad to Lebanese television
on October 24th
2023 who refers to the October 7th
attacks what Hamas calls the AL AA flood
as
follows
in the continuation of this interview
Kamas is asked kamad is
asked does that mean the annihilation of
Israel yes of course he says the
existence of Israel is
illogical and then he says nobody should
blame us for the things we do on October
7th October 10th October 1 millionth
everything we do is Justified end
quote given that on October 7th before
any military response by Israel South
Africa issued an official statement
blaming Israel for quote the recent
conation essentially blaming Israel for
the murder of its own
citizens one wonders whether the
applicant agrees
second it is in response to the
slaughter of October 7th which Kamas
openly vows to repeat and to the ongoing
attacks against it from Gaza that Israel
has the inherent right to take all
legitimate measures to defend its
citizens and secure the release of the
hostages this right is also not in doubt
it has been acknowledged by States
across the
world astonishing ly the court has been
requested to indicate a provisional
measure calling on Israel to suspend its
military
operations but this amounts to an
attempt to deny Israel its ability to
meet its obligations to the defense of
its citizens to the hostages and to over
110,000 internally displaced Israelis
and a to safely return to their
homes the applicant in its submissions
to the court makes almost no mention of
the ongoing humanitarian suffering of
Israel's citizens at the hands of Hamas
and treats the hostages still held in
captivity as barely an
afterthought but is there a reason these
people on your screen are Unworthy of
protection
for
Hamas is not a party to these
proceedings the applicant by its request
seeks to thwart Israel's inherent right
to defend itself to let Hamas not just
get away with its murder literally but
render Israel defenseless as Hamas
continues to commit
it yesterday Council for the applicant
made the astonishing claim that Israel
was denied this right and as a matter of
fact should not be able to protect
itself from hamas's
attacks but allow me to draw attention
to these words written by Professor
vaugh
low quote the source of the attack
whether a state or non-state actor is
irrelevant to the existence of the right
to
Defense Force may be used to avert a
threat because no one and no state is is
obliged by law passively to suffer the
delivery of an
attack Israel agrees with these words as
I suspect would any sovereign
state if the claim of the applicant now
is that in the armed conflict between
Israel and Hamas Israel must be denied
the ability to defend its
citizens then the Absurd upshot of South
Africa's argument is this under the
guise of the allegation against Israel
of of genocide this court is asked to
call for an end to operations against
the ongoing attacks of an organization
that pursues an actual genocidal agenda
an organization that has violated every
past ceasefire and used it to rearm and
plan new
atrocities an organization that declares
its unequivocal resolve to advance its
genocidal
plans that is an unconscionable
request and it is respect y submitted
that it cannot
stand third the court is informed of the
events of October 7th because if there
are any provisional measures that should
appropriately be indicated here they are
indeed with respect to South Africa it
is a matter of public record that South
Africa enjoys close relations with Kamas
despite its formal recognition as a
terrorist organization by numerous
States across the world these relations
have continued unabated even after the
October 7th
atrocities South Africa has long hosted
and celebrated its ties with Kamas
figures including a senior Kamas
delegation that incredibly visited the
country for a quote solidarity Gathering
just weeks after the
massacre in justifying instituting
proceedings South Africa makes much of
its obligations under the genocide
convention it seems fitting then that it
be instructed to comply with those
obligations
itself to end its own language of
delegitimization of Israel's
existence and its support for Hamas and
use its influence with this
organization so that Hamas permanently
ends its campaign of genocidal Terror
and releases the
hostages Madam president members of the
Court
the hostilities between Israel and Hamas
have exacted a terrible toll on both
Israelis and
Palestinians but any genuine effort to
understand the cause of this toll must
take account of the horrendous reality
created by Hamas within the Gaza
Strip when Israel withdrew all its
soldiers and civilians from Gaza in
2005 it left a coastal area with the
potential to become
a political and economic success
story hamas's violent Takeover in 2007
changed all
that over the past 16 years of its rule
Hamas has smuggled countless weapons
into Gaza and has diverted billions in
international Aid not to build schools
hospitals or shelters to protect its
population from the dangers of the
attacks it launched against Israel Over
many years
but rather to turn massive sths of the
civilian infrastructure into perhaps the
most sophisticated terrorist stronghold
in the history of urban
Warfare remarkably Council for the
applicant described the suffering in
Gaza as unparalleled and
unprecedented as if they are unaware of
the utter Devastation rought in wars
that have raged just in recent Years
Around the World
sadly the civilian suffering in Warfare
is not unique to
Gaza what is actually unparalleled and
unprecedented is the degree to which
Hamas has entrenched itself within the
civilian
population and made Palestinian civilian
suffering an integral part of its
strategy Hamas has systematically and
unlawfully embedded its military
operations militants and assets
throughout Gaza within and beneath
densely populated civilian areas it has
built an extensive Warren of underground
tunnels for its leaders and Fighters
sever several hundred miles in length
throughout the strip with thousands of
access points and terrorist hubs located
in homes mosques un facilities schools
and perhaps most shockingly
hospitals this is not an occas
tactic it is an integrated pre-planned
extensive and abhorent method of
warfare purposely and methodically
murdering civilians firing Rockets
indiscriminately systematically using
civilians sensitive sites and civilian
objects as Shields stealing and hoarding
humanitarian
supplies allowing those under its
control to suffer so that it can fuel
its Fighters and terrorist
campaign the appalling suffering of
civilians both Israeli and Palestinian
is first and foremost the result of this
despicable
strategy the horrible cost of Hamas not
only failing to protect its civilians
but actively sacrificing them for its
own propaganda and Military
benefit and if Hamas abandons this
strategy releases the hostages lays down
its arms the hostilities and suffering
would
end Madam president members of the
Court there are many distortions in the
applicant's submission to the court but
as shall be demonstrated by Council
there is one that overshadows them all
in the applicant's telling it is almost
as if there is no intensive armed
conflict taking place between two
parties at at all no grave threat to
Israel and its citizens only an Israeli
assault on
Gaza the court is told of widespread
damage to buildings but it is not told
for example how many thousands of those
buildings were destroyed because they
were booby trapped by Hamas how many
became legitimate targets because of the
strategy of using civilian objects and
protected sites for military purposes
how many buildings were struck by over
2,000 indiscriminate terrorist rockets
that misfired and landed in Gaza
itself the court is told of over 23,000
casualties as the applicant repeats as
many have unverified statistics provided
by Hamas itself hardly a reliable
source every civilian casualty in this
conflict is a human tragedy that demands
our
compassion but the court is not told how
many thousands of casualties are in fact
militants how many were killed by Kamas
fire how many were civilians taking
direct part in
hostilities and just how many are the
result of legitimate and proportionate
use of force against military targets
even if
tragic and the court is also told of the
dire humanitarian situation in
Gaza but it is not told of hamas's
practice of stealing and hoarding Aid it
is not told of the extensive Israeli
efforts to mitigate civilian harm of the
humanitarian initiatives being
undertaken to enable the flow of
supplies and provide medical attention
to the
wounded the applicant purports to
describe the reality in
Gaza but it is as if Hamas and its total
contempt for civilian life just do not
exist as a direct cause of that
reality Hamas is widely estimated to
have over 30,000
Fighters and is known to bring miners no
older than 15 or 16 into its
ranks they are coming for us but in
South Africa's telling they have all but
disappeared there are no explosives in
mosques and schools and children's B
bedrooms no ambulances used to transport
Fighters no tunnels and terrorist hubs
under sensitive sites no Fighters
dressed as civilians no Comm
commandeering of Aid trucks no firing
from civilian homes un facilities and
even safe zones there is only Israel
acting in
Gaza the applicant is essentially asking
the court to substitute the lens of
armed conflict between a state and a
lawless terrorist
organization with the lens of a
so-called genocide of a State against a
civilian
population but it is not offering the
court a lens it is offering it a
blindfold Madam president members of the
Court the nightmarish environment
created by Hamas has been concealed by
the applicant but it is the environment
in which Israel is compelled to
operate Israel is committed as it must
be to comply with the law but it does so
in the face of hamas's utter contempt
for the
law it is committed as it must be to
demonstrate
Humanity but it does so in the face of
hamas's utter in
humanity as will be presented by Council
these commitments are a matter of of
Express government policy
military directives and
procedures they are also an expression
of Israel's core
values and as shall also be
shown they are matched by genuine
measures on the ground to mitigate
civilian harm under the unprecedented
and excruciating conditions of warfare
created by
Kamas it is plainly
inconceivable under the terms set by
this very court that a state conducting
its in this way in these
circumstances may be said to be engaged
in genocide not even Prima
fasi the key component of genocide the
intention to destroy a people in whole
or in part is totally
lacking what Israel seeks by operating
in Gaza is not to destroy a people but
to protect the people its people who are
under attack
on multiple fronts and to do so in
accordance with the law even as it faces
a heartless enemy determined to use that
very commitment against
it as will be detailed by Council
Israel's lawful AIMS in Gaza have been
clearly and repeatedly articulated by
its prime minister its defense minister
and all members of the war
cabinet as the Prime Minister reiterated
yet yet again this week Israel is
fighting Hamas terrorists not the
civilian
population Israel aims to ensure that
Gaza can never again be used as a
Launchpad for
terrorism as the Prime Minister
reaffirms Israel seeks neither to
permanently occupy Gaza or to displace
its civilian
population it wants to create a better
future for Israelis and Palestinians
alike where both can live in peace
Thrive and prosper and where the
Palestinian people have all the power to
govern themselves but not the capacity
to threaten
Israel if there is a threat to that
Vision if there is a humanitarian threat
to the Palestinian civilians of Gaza it
stems primarily from the fact that they
have lived under the control of a
genocidal terrorist
organization that has total disregard
for their life and
well-being that organization Hamas and
its sponsors seek to deny Israel
Palestinians and Arab states across the
region the ability to advance a common
future of Peace coexistence security and
prosperity Israel is in a war of defense
against Hamas not against the
Palestinian people to ensure that they
do not
succeed in these circumstances aners
there can hardly be a charge more false
and more malevolent than the allegation
against Israel of
genocide the applicant has regrettably
engaged in a transparent attempt to
abuse the convention's compulsory
jurisdiction mechanism and in particular
the provisional measures phase of
proceedings to bring under the purview
of the Court matters over which in truth
it lacks
jurisdiction m president members of the
Court the genocide convention was a
solemn promise made to the Jewish people
and to All Peoples of never
again the applicant in effect invites
the court to betray that
promise if the term genocide can be so
diminished in the way that it
Advocates if provisional measures can be
triggered in the way that it suggests
the convention becomes becomes an
aggressor
Charter it will reward indeed encourage
the terrorists Who hide behind civilians
at the expense of the states seeking to
defend against
them to maintain the Integrity of the
genocide
convention to maintain its
promise and the Court's own role as its
Guardian it is respectfully submitted
that the application and request should
be dismissed for what they are a
liable designed to deny Israel the right
to defend itself according to the law
from the unprecedented Terrorist on
Onslaught it continues to
face and to free the
10 136 hostages Hamas still
holds I thank you for your kind
attention may I ask Madame President
that you call Professor Shaw to the
podium I thank the coagent of Israel for
his statement and I now invite Professor
Malcolm Shaw to take the floor you have
the floor Professor
Shaw Madam president and members of the
court it is a great honor to appear
before you again and a privilege to
appear on behalf of the state of Israel
it is my task today to address the
issues falling within the general
categories of primer fa jurisdiction and
the preservation of alleged rights
sought to be protected however I would
like first to make a preliminary comment
about the key question of context Which
con constitute the framework for the
consideration of this request for the
grant of provisional
measures South Africa casts its net
widely in its application it uses the
word context many
times in particular it declares that it
is important to place the acts of
genocide in the broader context of
Israel's conduct towards the
Palestinians during its 75 5 year long
parid leaving aside the outrageous
nature of that statement why stop at 75
years why not refer to 1922 and the
approval by the Council of the League of
Nations of the British mandate or
1917 the proclamation of the balford
Declaration maybe also include the entry
into the land of Israel of the Israelite
tribes some
3,500 years ago
no the immediate and proximate context
for the specific allegations of genocide
claimed by South Africa lies in the
events of the 7th of October when Hamas
militants and other armed groups and
individuals stormed into the
internationally recognized Sovereign
territory of Israel and committed s of
barely credible atrocity it was these
events that truly constitute the real
context for South Africa's allegations
indeed such acts may be seen as the real
genocide in this
situation as the president of the
European commission put it on the 19th
of
October there was no limit to the blood
Hamas terrorists wanted to spill they
went home by home they burned people
alive they mutilated children and even
babies why because they were Jews
because they were living in the state of
Israel and hamas's explicit goal is to
eradicate Jewish life from the Holy Land
these terrorists supported by their
friends into haran will never stop and
so Israel has the right to defend itself
in line
with humanitarian
law of
course these atrocities do not justify
violations of the law in
reply still less
genocide but they do justify mandate
even the exercise of the legitimate and
inherent right of a state to defend
itself as entrained in the UN Charter
and under customary international law
to put an end to the continuing attacks
against it and to prevent them from
succeeding a threat that has been made
explicitly by Hamas and repeated and it
is thus real and
imminent this context is critical for it
shows that the true nature of the
situation as it as it has unfolded
particularly the 7th of October is that
of an armed conflict a heavily armed
militia and its allies precipitated
egregious hostilities and the
consequences lie everywhere point is
this armed conflict even when fully
Justified and conducted lawfully is
brutal and costs
lives particularly when the militia in
question specifically targets civilians
and civilian
facilities and when it is patently
unconcerned about causing civilian
casualties on its own
side the conflict has also regulated by
law the rules and principles of
international humanitarian law under the
he regulations the Geneva conventions of
1949 and customary international law
these are welldeveloped and applicable
and are fully respected by Israel
such rules cover permitted activities
under International humanitarian law
where civilian damage and loss always to
be regretted are caused in the
legitimate pursuit of military
objectives through to the violation of
the
law being grave breaches of the genev
conventions and up to war crimes and
crimes against humanity
however the only category before this
court is
genocide not every conflict is
genocidal the crime of genocide in
international law and under the genocide
convention in international law is a
uniquely malicious
manifestation it stands alone amongst
the violations of international law as
the epitome and Zenith of evil it has
been described correctly as the crime of
crimes the ultimate in
wickedness indeed the court itself
emphasized in its order of the 2nd of
June
1999 that the threat or use of force
cannot in itself constitute an act of
genocide within the meaning of article
two of the Geneva
Convention and particularly instant
bombing as lacking the element of intent
in the circumstance
ansers to put it another way if claims
of genocide were to become the common
currency of armed conflict whenever and
wherever that
occurred the essence of this crime would
be diluted and
lost I turn now to the question of the
primer facial jurisdiction of the court
in the matter before
us article 9 of the genocide convention
to which both part both states are
parties without
reservation makes the Court's
jurisdictional Jurisdiction conditional
on the existence of a dispute relating
to the interpretation application or
fulfillment of the
convention and the relevant date for
determining the existence of such a
dispute is the date on which the
application is submitted to the
court
whether or not a dispute in these terms
exists at the time of the filing of the
application is a matter for objective
determination by the court it is a
matter of substance and not a question
of form or procedure the court will take
into account in particular any
statements or documents exchanged
between the parties as well as any
exchanges made in multilateral settings
the court has
said the key Point here is the use of
the term exchange between the
parties unilateral assertion does not
suffice there needs to be some element
of Engagement between the parties the
element of interchange and bilateral
interaction is required a dispute is a
reciprocal phenomenon this point has
been consider consistently noted by the
court for example the court reaffirmed
in the Mayanmar case the view that it
had expressed earlier that in order for
a dispute in the sense of article 9 to
exist it must be shown that the claim of
one
party is positively
opposed by the
other the court further referred in the
martial Islands cases to the need that
the respond should not be deprived of
the opportunity to react before the
institution of proceedings to the claim
made made against its own
conduct where a state makes an assertion
concerning the conduct of another
state it must thus give the latter a
reasonable opportunity to respond before
resorting to
litigation particular particularly in a
matter of such severity as an accusation
of
genocide and particularly before a court
of this
standing and it behoves that state to
provide supporting evidence of some
credibility here South Africa cites only
a couple of general public statements by
Israel referencing merely a press report
by Reuters and a public publicity
release from the Israeli Ministry of
Foreign
Affairs these responses were not
addressed directly or even indirectly to
South Africa there is no evidence of
positive opposition as required by the
court
further South Africa cites no relevant
exchange between the parties which would
be the normal fashion for the expression
and determination of a dis dispute
between
states this actually typifies how South
Africa has approached this matter it
seems to believe that it does not take
two to tango it is sufficient if one
state determines there is a dispute
leaving the other party
flx Professor Dugard explains that South
Africa had voiced its concerns in the
security Council and in public
statements and refer and had further
refer the matter to the international
criminal court at that point he says it
became clear there was a serious dispute
between the two
states the court has emphasized that in
the case of statements made by one state
in a multilateral forum the court must
give particular attention inter Alia to
the content of a party statement and to
the identity of the intended addresses
in order to to determine whether that
statement together with any reaction th
to show that the parties before it
held clearly opposite
views South Africa's actions were
insufficient indeed in the martial
Islands cases the court referring
specifically to statement made at a
conference noted that it did not call
for a specific reaction by the UK and
thus no opposition of views can be
inferred from the absence of any such
reaction specific
reaction it is th disingenuous for
Professor Dugard to conclude that Israel
must have been aware from South Africa's
public statements de Marsh and referral
to the IC of Israel's genocidal acts
that a dispute existed between the two
states this is not a dispute it is a
unisp a one-sided clapping of
hands Professor dug God perhaps tries to
retrieve the situation by declaring that
special considerations apply to the
existence of disputes concerning article
9 without telling us what those
conditions could possibly
be
we come now to the rather bizarre story
of the exchange of note
verbal Professor Dugard would have us
believe that such exchanges are merely a
matter of courtesy of little real
consequence this is not the normal
understanding of such notes and their
importance in international relations
but he says this for a reason as we
shall
see South Africa in instituted
proceedings against Israel on the 29th
of
December in its long recital the
application notes that on the 21st of
December South Africa sent a note verbal
to Israel raising its concerns about
genocide in Gaza the application further
states that Israel has not responded
directly to South Africa's notee
verbal this is
incorrect Israel did indeed respond that
very day informing South Africa that the
note for Bal has been forwarded to
Capital and that a response was expected
shortly South Africa confirmed the next
day that it had received the message on
the 26th of December the director
general of Israel's Ministry of Foreign
Affairs proposed to his counterpart in
the department of international
relations and cooperation of South
Africa by text to schedule a meeting at
his earliest convenience in order to
discuss the issues
raised on the 27th of December the
embassy sent to South Africa by email a
note verbal suggesting a meeting of
respective directors General at the
earliest convenience in order to discuss
the issues
raised an an attempt by the embassy to
hand deliver the note was refused due to
to a national holiday and the South
African Department of international
relations specifically advised the
embassy on the 28th of December to hand
deliver the note on the 2nd of
January the application was instituted
on the 29th of
December this was an attempt by the
state of Israel in good faith to open a
dialogue and discuss South Africa's
concerns however Not only was this
ignored at the relevant time but South
Africa proceeded to Institute
proceedings the following day and
declared in its application that no
reply had been received to its note
verbal which was patently not the case
perhaps realizing the effect of this
South Africa with some haste sent a note
verbal on the 4th of January which
essentially just repeated the contents
of the note of the T 31st of
December but it explained the following
day in a letter to the registra that the
Israeli note had not been received by
the appropriate team Israel has proof of
receipt it also stated that the dispute
is plainly not capable of resolution by
way of a bilateral meeting nevertheless
it suggested to hold hold a meeting the
next morning Israel replied the next
morning expressing surprised that South
Africa had instituted proceedings
without taking up a sincerely made offer
to hold
consultations and conveying its wish for
discussions to be held following the
close of these oral hearings South
Africa in a note dated the 10th of
January simmerly and surprisingly in the
circumstances said there was no point in
such a meeting curious indeed
South Africa decided
unilaterally that a dispute existed
irrespective of Israel's conciliatory
and friendly response since
repeated perhaps had South Africa taken
up this offer at the time proferred as a
result of its own note the parties may
have decided there was no dispute as
such to place before the court under the
genocide
convention and that South Africa's
expressed concerns over the genocide
allegation would have been assuaged we
may never know South Africa's
precipitate institution of proceedings
foreclosed that
option it's a point worth
underlining South Africa did not give
Israel a reasonable opportunity to
engage with it on the matters under
consideration before filing its no doubt
long prepared
application one wonders whether South
Africa at the very last moment suddenly
realized that it needed to show the
existence of a dispute under the terms
of the genocide convention and proceeded
to hastily formulate and dispatch a
flurry of
notes the court can grant orders for
provisional measures only were the
provisions relied upon by the applicant
appear Prime fase to afford a basis on
which its jurisdiction could be founded
although it need not satisfy in itself
in a definitive manner that it has
jurisdiction as regards the merits of
the
case it's not an easy matter to
determine whether a primary face shap
case exists it rests between full proof
and complete absence of
proof and is intended to ensure that the
court functions effectively and
efficiently but there has to be
something being tangible in terms of the
provisions in
question the provisional measures
procedure is a complex instrument in
that the court has to decide upon the
basis of certain assumptions which may
or may not be disproved at a later stage
of the
proceedings this is particularly
difficult in such an egregious manner
matter as an allegation of genocide
were understood by
the excuse
me I've lost a
page
okay well the standard of proof at the
merriage stage is high the court having
made it clear that claims against a
state involving charges of exceptional
gravity must be proved by evidence that
is fully
conclusive that is not the case of
course of the provisional measures stage
but it's also not
negligible the court is asked to Grant
in this case a number of measures that
in effect assume that the party in
question is committing genocide as Mr
Staker will show later this morning mud
is thrown at a stage before conclusive
proof and it may stick even if the
accusation is comprehensively disproved
at the Merit phase as we
expect a serious political and security
price may be paid by the grantee of such
measures even though it may later be
shown to be completely
unwarranted this must surely required
that the court acts with caution and
understanding particularly in evaluating
the components of the allegation in
law provisional measures are intended to
constitute a shield and not a sword to
preserve not undermine
rights we have shown that one element of
article 9 that of the need to
demonstrate the existence of a
dispute as understood by the court in
the light of its case law is
lacking the second element con concerns
the question as to whether the ACT
complained of by the applicant can be
seen as falling within the provisions uh
of the
convention the court has noted that only
at the Merit stage can it be determined
whether the provisions in question of
the convention have been
violated to accomplish this the
necessary specific intend to destroy in
whole or in part a national ethnical
racial or religious group as such has to
be proved
however this cannot be read as a
complete rejection of consideration of
the intend Criterion for current
purposes the court in the minark case
noted that a finding of violations of
the Merit stage notably depends on the
existence of intent notably not
exclusively Myanmar is not a ruling that
in inent is irrelevant in a
consideration of prime fascia
jurisdiction it is a ruling that in
conclusion as to whether or not
violations have actually occurred is a
matter for the Merit which notably
depends on an assessment of intent this
clearly leaves open the
possibility that
intent is indeed a factor in determining
Prim faal jurisdiction in provis
provisional measures
proceedings this also comports with the
logic of the
situation the acts elements of the
definition of genocide are listed in
article two and for present purposes
there is no need to go through them the
issue is this what determines the
existence of the crime of genocide is
the intention to destroy in whole or a
part in part a particular group as
such that is what distinguishes genocide
from other international law crimes such
as war crimes or crimes against
humanity consider the ACT to consider
the act alone as listed in Article 2
with no reference at all to the intend
Criterion is thus to Denude the crime of
its very essence Hamlet without the
prince a car without an
engine we are at the provisional
measures phase of this case South Africa
does not have to prove that genocidal
acts have been or are being committed
but it does have to show that the con
that the genocide convention is in
play after all this court has no
jurisdiction to consider consider any
other alleged crimes however serious we
are only concerned with
genocide it is indeed a difficult
balance for the
court the court has stated that what is
required at this stage is to establish
whether the acts complained of are
capable of falling within the provisions
of the genocide convention but the acts
complained of may only be capable of
falling within the provisions of the
genocide convention if the intent is
present otherwise such acts
cannot constitute
genocide the factor intent colors the
whole question of Article 2 Acts
in other
words that there is primate evidence
that the acts that may fall within the
convention necessarily importing the
intent element have been established as
such South Africa accepts the need to
demonstrate
intent it referred to the concept of
specific intent in his application both
generally and in the specific context of
his discussion of the Court's primeasia
Jurisdiction and provisional measures
proceedings indeed South Africa placed a
considerable emphasis upon intent in its
pleadings Yesterday by Miss
hassim Mr Eng kitobi devoted his whole
pleading to this
requirement as far as the acts are
concerned in this case there is little
Beyond random assertions to demonstrate
that Israel has or has had the specific
intent to destroy in whole or in part
the Palestinian people as
such the intention faced with the 7th of
October atrocities and the continuing
rocket fire and incarceration of the
hostages on the part of Israel to act in
order to defend itself so as to
terminate the threats against it and
rescue the hostages certainly
exists the intent to deal with the armed
militants of Hamas and other such groups
is
undeniable were it the case which we
deny that Israeli forces have
transgressed some of the rules of
conflict then the matter will be tackled
at the appropriate time by Israel's
robust and independent legal system but
that is not the intent to destroy all or
part of a people as such Israel's
actions
in restricting its targeting practices
to attack military personnel or
objectives in accordance with
International humanitarian law in a
proportionate manner in each
case as well as its practice of
mitigating civilian harm such as by
for Def flating and so forth coupled
with the facilitation of humanitarian
assistance all demonstrate the precise
opposite of any possible genocidal
intent South Africa in seeking to
discover the necessary intent presents a
distorted picture it Mis understands the
nature and provence of certain comment
comments made by some Israeli
politicians let me try and explain the
big
picture Israel possessed is a clear
excuse me a clear and effective
structure of
authority with regard to governmental
decision the war against Hamas is
managed on behalf of the
government by two Central
organs the ministerial committee on
National Security
Affairs and the war excuse
me
uh and the war
cabinet the latter established for the
purpose of managing the War uh by the
former these bodies make the relevant
decisions regarding the war's conduct
and according to Israeli law the
decisions of the government and its
committees obligate the Ministers of the
government in accordance with the
principle of collective
responsibility it is the collective
decisions of these bodies which are The
Binding Provisions in question the Prime
Minister stands at the head of these
organs decides on the agenda of their
meetings steers their activity and
summarizes the meetings and the
instructions issued therein to make it
clear
in order to determine the policy and
intentions of the government of
Israel it is necessary to examine the
decisions of the ministerial committee
on National Security Affairs and the war
cabinet and to examine whether the
particular comments expressed conform or
not with the policies and decisions made
thus to produce random quotes that are
not not in Conformity with government
policy produced as describing is
misleading at
best such as the statement by the
minister of Heritage for example who is
completely outside the policy and
decisionmaking process in the war in any
event his statement was immediately
repudiated by members of the war cabinet
and other ministers including the prime
minister
in tap 1 a of the volume which Israel
has submitted to the court one may find
numerous excerpts from internal cabinet
decisions that attest to Israel's true
intent throughout this war for example
one finds the instructions from the
prime minister in a meeting of the
ministerial committee on National
Security affairs from the 29th of
October stating the following one the
Prime Minister stated time and again we
must prevent a humanitarian disaster two
the Prime Minister indicated the
possible sorts of solutions that may
that will ensure required supply of
water food and Medicine increasing the
amount of trucks entering with the
necessary inspections
three promoting the construction of
field hospitals in the south of the Gaza
Strip to
reemphasize this is a directive to
authorities nothing less tab 1A contains
a considerable number of similar
directives emphasizing the need to avoid
harm to civilians and facilitate
humanitarian
Aid genocidal
intent let me turn to the
IDF this is this like every Army is a
hierarchical body that operates by way
of ERS from superiors and is headed by
the chief of the general
staff remarks or actions of a
soldier do not and cannot reflect
policy in tab 1B one may find a daily
operational
directive which I understand is repeated
day by day issued by the operations
directorate of the IDF stating that
attacks will be solely directed towards
military targets while adhering to the
principles of Distinction
proportionality and the obligation
taking precautions in ATT tax in order
to reduce collateral
damage this is a directive that binds
all IDF forces it continues by stating
that the laws of armed conflict allow
destruction to to civilian property only
when there is a military necessity to do
so and prohibit harm to property for
deterence purposes only or for the
purpose of punishment individual or
Collective it emphasizes that it is
necessary to treat enemy civilians with
respect they should not be treated in a
humil humiliating Manner and civilians
should not be used for the purposes for
the purpose of Performing activities
that might put them under risk to their
life or their body this is a mandatory
instruction
effective since the start of the war
taban B contains many similar Provisions
which are themselves only an
illustration of many other such
directives orders and
procedures further on the 28th of
October
the Prime Minister publicly declared
that the IDF is doing everything
possible to avoid harming those not
involved while on the 18th of November
he declared that first of all and above
all else Israel acts according to the
laws of war this is how our army
works the Minister of Defense publicly
stated on the 29th of October that we
are not fighting the Palestinian
multitude and the Palestinian people in
Gaza and declared on the 13th of
November that our war is against the
Hamas terrorist organization not the
people of Gaza again the president of
Israel declared on the 12th of October
that we are working operating militarily
according to rules of international law
period
unequivocally we have collated numerous
such statements by the president by the
Prime Minister by the ministry of
Defense by the IDF spokesperson and
others in tab two of our volume since
this is such a critical part of South
Africa's thesis permit me to refer to
two further statements by the Prime
Minister I start with the most
recent 10th of
January Israel has no intention of
permanently occupying Gaza or displacing
its civilian population
Israel is fighting Hamas terrorists not
the Palestinian population and we are
doing so in full compliance with
international law the IDF is doing its
utmost to minimize civilian casualties
while Hamas is doing its utmost to
maximize them by using Palestinian
civilians as human Shields the IDF urges
Palestinian civilians to leave War zones
by disseminating leaflets making f calls
providing safe passage corridors while
Hamas prevents Palestinians from leaving
at gunpoint and often with
gunfire our goal is to rid Gaza of Hamas
terrorists and free our hostages once
this is achieved Gaza can be
demilitarized and
deradicalized thereby creating a
possibility for a better future for
Israel and Palestinians alike on 2 the
3rd of November prime minister natany
declared that any
civilian death is a tragedy anyone and
to avoid them what you do is first you
try and get the civilian out of Harm's
Way and that's exactly what we did there
are many more of the same any careful
review of the official and binding
policy decisions made by the relevant
authorities in Israel since the outbreak
of the war clearly evidence that such
decisions lack any genocidal intent the
contrary is true they are indicative of
the consistent and Relentless commitment
of Israeli relevant authorities to
mitigate civilian harm and alleviate
civilian suffering in Gaza some of the
comments to which South Africa refers
are clearly rhetorical made in the
immediate aftermath of an event which
severely traumatized Israel but which
cannot be seen as demanding genocide
they express anguish and the necessity
to restore control over Israel's own
territory under a severe threat and
safety to its
citizens as Jud com tomka has noted
sometimes statements are made which are
nothing more than a part of the recent
War time rhetoric intending to put the
blame and shame on the other side not to
be totally ignored but not to be
ascribed an importance which belies how
and when they were made nor of legal
significance let me refer to one further
matter of some biblical
moment yesterday the applicant referred
time but again to two statements by the
Israeli Prime Minister where where he
said remember what amalik did to you and
attach great importance to it as part of
the argument that Israel has
demonstrated a genocidal intent there is
no need here for a theological
discussion on the meeting of amalik in
Judaism which was indeed not understood
by the applicant let me just turn to the
Prime Minister statement of the 28th of
October which was partially and
misleadingly quoted
yesterday he said we are now entering
the second phase of the war which its
objectives are clear destruction of the
military and governmental capabilities
Solas and the return of the hostages
back home in the last couple of days I
have met with our soldiers in the bases
in the field in the north and in the
South remember what amalak has done to
you we remember and we are fighting
in front of our brave and hero soldiers
there is one prior mission to defeat the
murderous enemy and secure our existence
in our land the IDF is the most moral
army in the world
the additional examples of misleading
quotes by the applicants
regarding Israel's policy it is this our
conclusion that South Africa has failed
to demonstrate the prime fascia
jurisdiction of the Court I turn to the
next
issue as the court has noted its power
to Grant provisional measures as its
object the preservation of the
respective rights claimed by the parties
in a case pending its decision on the
merits at the provisional measure stage
the court does not need to determine to
determine that such rights do actually
exist in a definitive manner but it must
establish that such rights are plausible
ible South Africa yesterday dealt with
this rather
lightly we can safely
say the plausibility is an elusive
concept simply declaring the claimed
rights are plausible is
insufficient the issue was addressed by
judge Greenwood in the Border area case
when he emphasized that what is required
is something more than assertion but
less than proof in other words the party
must show that there is at least a
reasonable
possibility that the right it claims
exists as a matter of Law and will be a
judge to apply to that party's case he
later discussed this in terms of a
reasonable Prospect of success what is
clear is that the court has sought to
tie plausibility to particular treaty
Provisions or to general rules of
international
law the court has also considered claims
of fact in this contract as well as law
such as the finding as to where the
Equatorial Guinea plausibly used the
building at 42 Avenue forch for
diplomatic
purposes in this case the court did not
limit itself to considering where the
applicant plausibly held the right in
question under international law but
extended the field of inquiry to include
consideration as to whether it was
plausible that the respondent had
breached the rights in
question this approach appears also in
Ukraine and
Russia where the court concluded that on
the basis of the evidence presented by
the parties it appears that some of the
acts complained of by Ukraine fulfill
this condition of plausibility in other
words the court was prepared to consider
not only the question question of of the
plausibility of
Rights
well some has shuffled my
papers
well but also the uh
question of the possible breach of such
rights the power of the court to
indicate provisional measures under
article 41 of the statute has its object
object yes someone thought that my
speech was a pack of cards
indeed in the jadav case my apologies
the court was prepared to examine
evidence as to the existence of asserted
rights and whether as a matter of fact
the violations had plausibly happened
the final point to be made in this
section of my pleading is simply to
underline the obvious point that the
court needs to consider the relevant
respective rights of both parties
respondent as well as the
applicant article 41 provides that the
purpose
of the provisional measures is to
preserve
the rights of either
party I would note the court order of
the 16th of March 2022 in Ukraine Russia
stating that the power of the court to
indicate provisional measures has has as
its object the preservation of the
respective rights claimed by the
parties and further quote the comment in
the Mayar case that the function of
provisional measures is to protect the
respective rights of either party
pending its final decision this Mutual
protection or balancing Criterion in the
light of the rights of both parties is
intended to prevent either party being
placed in a situation of disadvantage
and to ensure that irreparable prejudice
will not be caused to either
party I will look briefly at the
relevant rights of both parties
here as regards the applicant I make
three simple and brief points First
South Africa has presented a confusing
and a partial resp cital of the facts
this will be disc discussed later this
morning by Miss Rajan secondly that the
appropriate legal framework for this
tragic situation is that of
international humanitarian law
thirdly that Israel's efforts both to
mitigate harm when conducting operations
as well as its efforts to alleviate
suffering through humanitarian
activities have gone relatively
unnoticed and dispel or at the very
least
mitigate against any allegation of
genocidal
intent as from Israel's withdrawal of
its civilian and Military presence from
Gaza in
2005 which brought an end to its
belligerent occupation and the violent
coming to power of Hamas in
2007 a situation of conflict has existed
with Hamas firing rocket as Israeli
towns and Villages
unceasingly however the attack on Israel
on the 7th of October was qualitatively
different from all that went before the
truth is that if there has been any
genocidal activity in this situation it
was the event of 7th of
October acts and intent can and have
been advocately
demonstrated
but Hamas recognized as a terrorist
group by at least 41 States including
the US the UK all members of the EU
Canada Australia Saudi Arabia Japan and
Colombia is not before the court only
South Africa a third party that is not
involved in the armed conflict appears
nevertheless as South Africa has pointed
out complicity in genocide is in
play
States that supported condoned praised
or glorified the events of the 7th of
October both at the time and later stand
guilty of a violation of article 3E of
the Convention as being complicit in
genocide and indeed of the duty to
prevent genocide under article one and
as the agent has pointed out South
Africa has given sucker and support to
Hamas at the least
clearly of relevance to a discussion of
the situation is the facilitation of
humanitarian assistance something that
hardly sits well with accusations of
genocidal intent as my colleagues will
demonstrate Israeli Israel's activities
in this area need to be addressed and
not swept aside as South Africa seeks to
do Prime amongst the rights of the
respondent
that are critical to any legal
evaluation of the situation is the
inherent right of any state to defend
itself embedded in customary
international law and enshrined in the
UN Charter this right afforded to States
reaffirms and underlines the
responsibility of all states towards uh
their
citizens and mark the acceptance by the
International Community of the political
reality and Lead leg Al confir
confirmation that states when attacked
May legitimately respond in a forceful
and proportionate manner Professor low
yesterday sought to maintain that Israel
has no right to self-defense in this
situation how could anyone possibly
argue that Israel could not defend
itself faced with the 7th of October
atrocities and the incessant attacks
against its civilians since indeed a
very wide range of States has
acknowledged the right of self-defense
here ranging from the UK to the US
France Germany Italy Canada Japan Ghana
and Guatemala and
others Israel Bears the responsibility
to exercise its protection over its
citizens not only those constantly
subjected to bombardment from
Gaza but also and critically with regard
to those captured and held hostage as a
result of the 7th of October
outrage these rights exist and cannot be
disregarded of course Israel does not
have any right to violate the law still
less to commit genocide and indeed it
does not but it does have every right to
act to defend itself in accordance with
the rules of principles of of
international law and so it has
done a link has to be established
between the rights asserted and the
provisional measures requested and this
issue will be addressed by Mr
Staker and he will show that the
measures proposed go far beyond the
protection of the rights
asserted Adam president members of the
Court they say is an important case
allegations have been made which Verge
on the
outrageous the attack by Hamas on 7th of
October with its deliberate Commission
of atrocities clearly forms in Falls
within the statutory definition of
genocide Israel's response was and
remains legitimate and
necessary it acted and continues to act
in a manner consistent with
international law it does so not in an
unrestrained manner but in investing
unprecedented efforts in mitigating
civilian arm at a cost to its operations
as well as alleviating hardship and
suffering with investment of resources
and efforts there is no genocidal intent
here this is no
genocide South Africa tells us only half
the story Israel is guilty of genocide
we cannot deal with Hamas only Israel
Must Be Stopped from protecting its
citizenry and elimate eliminating the
egregious threat that is Hamas we cannot
deal with
Hamas meanwhile we must bind the arms of
the state of Israel Hamas is for some
other
body I
conclude first the core of genocide is
intent without intent there can be no
genocide in law it is true for the
merits it is equally true for
provisional
measures any primer fase consideration
indeed of intent even at this
preliminary stage will only demonstrate
its absence from Israel's activities
second there is here no dispute under
the genocide Convention as at the time
of submission of the application as
alleged by Africa and as required for
primary fase jurisdiction indeed South
Africa's own precipitate activities with
notes over recent weeks demonstrates the
lack of its confidence in this respect
and that is
telling thirdly the rights to be
protected in the provisional measures
procedure cover not just the applicant
but also the respondent and chief
amongst these rights is that of the
right and obligation to act to defend
itself and its citizens this must be
considered and weighed by the court as
against the false accusations level
Israel Madame President members of the
Court thank you for your kind attention
um I would ask you to call Madame Rajan
at your
convenience thank you Professor Shaw
before I give the floor to the next
speaker the court will observe a coffee
break of 10 minutes the city is
adjourned
for
please be
seated the sitting is resumed and I now
give the floor to miss galit Ragan you
have the
floor
you madam president members of the Court
it is an honor to appear before you on
behalf of the state of
Israel as Professor sha noted at this
stage South Africa does not need to
prove that genocidal acts have been or
are being committed but it does have to
show that the genocide convention is
actually
relevant it has to shows some level of
Acts and some level of intent Professor
Shaw has spoken to the issue of Express
intent it is my task to speak to the
circumstances of Israel's
actions Israel cannot possibly
comprehensively address today all of the
allegations made in South Africa's
application in this regard the applicant
paints a dire picture but it is a
partial and deeply flawed picture the
application is so distorted in its
descriptions that it prevents the court
from properly assessing the plausibility
of the rights asserted by South Africa
plausibility cannot be determined based
on the unsubstantiated allegations of
one party to the proceedings alone if
article 41 of the Court statute is to
have any
meaning in the time available I will
address three aspects of reality on the
ground the the applicant has either
ignored or
misrepresented first hamas's military
tactics and
strategy second Israel's efforts to
mitigate civilian harm during
operational
activity and third Israel's efforts to
address humanitarian hardship in Gaza
despite hamas's attempts at
obstruction with respect to hamas's
military tactics and strategy
it is astounding that in yesterday's
hearing Hamas was mentioned only in
passing and only in reference to the
October 7 massacre in
Israel listening to the presentation by
the applicant it was as if Israel is
operating in Gaza against no armed
adversary but the same Hamas that
carried out the October 7 attacks in
Israel is the governing Authority in
Gaza and the same Hamas has has built a
military strategy founded on embedding
its assets and operatives in and amongst
the civilian
population Urban Warfare will always
result in tragic deaths harm and damage
but in Gaza these undesired outcomes are
exacerbated because they are the desired
outcomes of
Hamas in urban Warfare civilian
casualties may be the unintended but
lawful result of attacks on lawfully
military
objectives International humanitarian
law recognizes this reality and provides
a framework for balancing military
necessity with humanitarian
considerations these do not constitute
genocidal
acts in the current conflict many
civilian deaths are directly caused by
Hamas booby trapped homes detonate and
kill
indiscriminately mines and Alleyways
collapse structures around them and over
2,000 rockets misfired by Hamas have
landed inside Gaza causing Untold levels
of harm one telling example is a blast
at the alali hospital on October
17 Hamas claimed that the Israel Defense
Forces the IDF attacked the hospital
headlines around the world rushed to
repeat this claim the F later proved and
US intelligence and other National
Security intelligence agencies
independently confirmed that the blast
was the result of a failed launch from
within Gaza it was not as Hamas claimed
the fault of the
IDF damage to civilian structures is
another fact claimed by South Africa as
evidence of
genocide but South Africa does not
consider the sheer extent to which Hamas
uses ostensibly civilian structures for
military
purposes houses schools mosques un
facilities and shelters are all abused
for military purposes by Hamas including
as Rocket launching sites hundreds of
kilometers of tunnels dug by Hamas under
populated areas in Gaza often cause
structures above to
collapse
in the slides before you you can see a
militant priming projectiles for launch
on IDF forces in Gaza you can see the
holes in the residential house to hide
and launch
them here you can see projectiles
discovered underneath a bed in a child's
bedroom here a rocket being fired from a
school the launch site is circled in
red here you can see firing from a un
school you can see the letters un on the
roof and the fire is circled in
red and here long range rocket launchers
hidden inside a scouts club
building finally you can see part of a
tunnel that runs for 4 kilm including
nearby the Aras Crossing which is
adjacent to
Israel gaza's infrastructure has
certainly been harmed during the
conflict however South Africa would have
the court believe that Israel is
deliberately and unlawfully destroying
homes without cause but harm caused to
lawful military objectives and harm
caused as a result of hamas's actions is
not evidence of
genocide South Africa also alleges that
Israel has waged an assault on gaza's
Health System what South Africa has
neglected to bring before the court
however is the overwhelming evidence of
hamas's military use of such
hospitals Hamas militants retreated to
rantisi hospital in Gaza on October 7th
with hostages from Israel whom they then
held in the
basement in the slide before you you
will see a militant going into K's
hospital with an
RPG Hamas fired at idea of forc from
near and from within the K's
hospital at chifa hospital gaza's
largest Hamas managed operations from a
closed off
area here you can see an opening to the
tunnel that ran for hundreds of meters
directly under the
hospital here you can see the weapons
found in different wings of the
hospital and here CCTV footage showing
armed militants bringing hostages into
the hospital's
Lobby more than 80 militants hiding
inside another hospital the adwan
hospital surrendered themselves to the
IDF and here you can see a weapon that
IDF forces discovered hidden inside
incubators at the
hospital the director of the hospital
has admitted that numerous members of
hospital staff belong to hamas's
military
Wing in the Indonesian Hospital in the
neighborhood of jabalia hamama forces
managed their operations from that
hospital until the IDF reached it IDF
forces recovered the bodies of five
murdered hostages from a tunnel dug
underneath the
hospital the list goes on in every
single hospital that the IDF has
searched in Gaza it has found evidence
of Hamas military
use Israel is acutely aware that because
of Hamas M's use of hospitals as shields
for its military operations in grave
violations of international humanitarian
law patients and staff are at risk this
is why the IDF has reached out to every
hospital and offered assistance in
relocating patients and staff to safer
areas hospitals have not been bombed
rather the IDF sends soldiers to search
and dismantle military infrastructure
reducing damage and disruption indeed
the tunnel that sat directly under the
main building in chifa hospital was
exploded without damaging the building
above the IDF then withdrew from the
hospital yes damage and harm have
occurred as a result of hostilities in
hospitals vicinity sometimes by IDF fire
sometimes by Hamas but always as a
direct result of hamas's abhorent method
of warfare
Israel has published plenty of evidence
of the extensive misuse by Hamas of
medical facilities in direct violations
of international humanitarian law it has
brought journalists to see firsthand it
has recorded calls with Hospital staffs
to coordinate assistance none of that is
mentioned in the
application in fact the applicant
describes the result and asks the court
to attribute malicious intent to Israel
but that is only a possible conclusion
if one obscures as the applicant has
hamas's strategy of turning hospitals
into terrorist
compounds the applicant also made much
of the fact that Force has been even
used in humanitarian
zones what the applicant neglected to
inform the court however was that Hamas
has in its contempt for Palestinian
Civil Life regularly and deliberately
fired from such zones turning areas of
relief into zones of
conflict here before you you can see one
example of a launch site adjacent to the
humanitarian
Zone both Amplified in larger pictures
and in the next slide you can see
evidence of a rocket launched from next
to gaza's water desalination
facility I now would like to address
briefly the second issue Israel's
efforts at mitigation of Civilian
harm here too the applicant tells not
just a partial story but a false one for
example the application presents
Israel's call to civilians to evacuate
areas of intensive
hostilities quote as an act calculated
to bring about its physical destruction
quote this is a particularly egregious
allegation that is completely
disconnected from the governing legal
framework of international humanitarian
law evacuation of civilians is
recognized under International
humanitarian law as one of the measures
that may be implemented to protect
civilians from the effects of ongoing
hostilities indeed such evacuation may
even amount to a duty that the party to
the conflict has toward
civilians while temporary evacuation
undoubtedly involves hardship and
suffering it is preferable to remaining
in areas of intensive hostilities all
the more so when one party makes a
concerted effort to use those civilians
as
Shields the IDF maintains a civilian
harm mitigation unit to undertake this
task it works full-time to provide
advanced notice of areas in which the
IDS intends to intensify its activities
coordinate travel routes for civilians
and secure these routes this unit has
developed a detailed map so that
specific areas can be temporarily
evacuated instead of evacuating entire
areas on the slide before you you can
see that map divided into areas as well
as a screenshot of a video explaining
the system in Arabic so civilians May
understand
it the IDF also enacts localized pauses
in its operations to allow civilians to
move it does this even though Hamas does
not agree to do the same and has even
attacked IDF forces securing
humanitarian corridors
excuse me uh I have a request from the
interpreters that you slow down the pace
of your speaking could you please do
that thank you of
course
yesterday South Africa stated that the
IDF G gave 24 hours notice to civilians
in Northern Gaza to
evacuate in fact the IDF urged civilans
to evacuate to Southern Gaza for over 3
weeks before it started started its
ground
operation 3 weeks that provided Hamas
with Advanced knowledge of where and
when the IDF would be
operating this 3-week period for
temporary evacuation is a matter of
common knowledge and the applicant's
misrepresentation of this fact is at
best an unfamiliarity with the
events and at worst a desire to tailor
its story to a pre-existing
narrative the IDF employs a range of
additional measures in accordance with
the obligation to take precautionary
measures under International
humanitarian law for
example it provides effective advance
warnings of attacks where circumstances
permit to date the IDF has dropped
millions of leaflets over a areas of
expected attacks with instructions to
evacuate and how to do so broadcast
countless messages over radio and
through social media warning civilians
to distance themselves from Hamas
operations and made over 70,000
individual phone calls including to
occupants of the targets warning them of
impending
attacks this requires time it requires
Ires resources and intelligence and the
IDF invests all of these to save
civilian
lives here you can see the idf's Arabic
Twitter account providing information
for civilians to evacuate specific areas
including the location of shelters
nearby yet the applicant astonishingly
claims that these efforts are in
themselves
genocidal in other words a measure
intended to mitigate harm to the
civilian
population sometimes exceeding the
requirements of international
humanitarian law is proof according to
the applicant of Israel's intent to
commit
genocide when in fact it proves the
exact
opposite my third topic with respect to
the humanitarian
situation much attention was given by
South Africa to this
situation despite Israel's efforts to
mitigate harm there is no question that
many civilians in Gaza are suffering as
a result of the war that Hamas
began while Israel is seing seeking to
minimize civilian harm Hamas is doing
everything in its power to use the
civilian population and civilian
infrastructure for its own protection
thwarting humanitarian efforts aimed at
alleviating the distress of the civilian
population further illustration on
hamas's tactics and Israel's efforts can
be found in tabs four and nine of the
volume provided to the court I now turn
to describe just some of the
humanitarian coordination efforts that
is Israel has been engaged in and Mr
sender will further expand on
this Israel maintains a dedicated
military unit called
Kat responsible for routine coordination
with International organizations in Gaza
with respect to various humanitarian
aspects it is Kat that mans and operates
the crossings between Israel and Gaza
this includes the eras Crossing through
which prior of October 7 almost 20,000
gin passed through into Israel daily for
work South Africa showed a map yesterday
with the eras Crossing marked
closed what it failed to
note is that the crossing was attacked
on October 7th by Hamas which murdered
and kidnapped Kat staff and caused
significant damage
here you can see some of that
damage
nevertheless Kat Works around the clock
to fulfill its role its large
professional staff run numerous
initiatives of which I will only mention
a
few first Kat manages a mechanism by
which it maintains an up-to-date picture
of the needs in
Gaza it does this this with the UN other
International organizations and States
whose Representatives sit in Kat's
offices Kat uses this monitoring to help
donor States and
organizations prioritize their aid
efforts to fit the evolving situation on
the ground
second Kat facility facilitates the
entry of Aid into
Gaza Israel as public publicly stated
repeatedly that there is no limit on the
amount of food water shelter or medical
supplies that can be brought into
Gaza to increase capacity Kat has
reopened the km Shalom Crossing as
acknowledged by the security Council in
resolution
2720 despite Hamas putting it under
Fire Israel has offered to extend
operating hours at the Crossing if there
is a capacity to receive the goods by
International organizations on the gazen
side
third Kat Works to reinforce and
strengthen Medical
Services Kat has facilitated the huge
logistical challenge of establishing
four field hospitals in Gaza and more
are being set up and two floating
hospitals it has facilitated the entry
of new ambulances into Gaza and Israel
has even coordinated airdrops of aid
over Gaza by Jordan
coordinating these flights with the
Israel Air Force operating in
Gaza this of course is not to say that
nothing more can be done or that that
there are no challenges to the
humanitarian situation in Gaza such
challenges exist and change according to
the evolving circumstances of the
conflict but it is to say that the
charge of genocide in the face of these
extensive efforts is frankly
untenable It Is An Inconvenient Truth
for the applicant's case but one of the
most significant challenges is the fact
that Hamas commanders Consignments into
Gaza and controls their
distribution gazen residents have
reported that Hamas is regularly
stealing Aid at the expense of its own
population for the benefit of its
fighs this is a tweet stating that fuel
and medical equipment was stolen
by purported Hamas members from an unra
Warehouse unra later deleted later
deleted the Tweet perhaps under pressure
from the
authorities here you can see Hamas
commandeering an aid
truck and here is another
example because Hamas for years has used
Aid Consignments to smuggle weapons
Security checks of all Goods going into
Gaza are required as acknowledged by
International humanitarian
law Hamas has time and again hoarded
fuel including during the current
conflict which it uses for military
purposes to sustain ventilation in its
expansive underground tunnel Network and
for its continued attacks against Israel
nevertheless in coordination with the UN
Israel enables fuel to enter Gaza to
service essential infrastructure such as
sewage treatment desalination plants
water pumps and hospitals and cellular
infrastructure for maintaining
communication Israel remains committed
to helping International organizations
and States involved in the aid effort to
overcome these hurdles and consistently
increase the amount of Aid and services
available to the population is in Gaza
as will be further described by Mr
sender
here a picture of incubators that the
IDF provided to shifa
hospital here a picture of an ambulance
Convoy coordinated by
Kat a picture of
Consignments a picture of ambulances the
entry of which was coordinated by
Kat and finally more Consignment waiting
to enter
Gaza
Madam president members of the court in
the time allotted I have been able to
describe only some of Israel's efforts
to mitigate civilian harm and to address
the humanitarian situation in Gaza but
even this mere fraction is enough to
demonstrate how tendentious and partial
the applicants presentations of these
facts is and certainly enough to
conclude that the allegation of intent
to commit genocide is
baseless if Israel had such
intent would it delay a ground maneuver
for weeks urging civilians to seek safer
space and in doing so sacrificing
operational
Advantage would it invest massive
resources to provide civilians details
about where to go when to go how to go
to leave areas of fighting
would it maintain a dedicated unit
staffed with experts whose sole role is
to facilitate Aid and who continue to do
so despite having their staff killed and
kidnapped when a population is ruled by
a terrorist organization that cares more
about wiping out its neighbor than about
protecting its own civilians there are
acute challenges in protecting the
civilian population
those challenges are exacerbated by the
dynamic and evolving nature of intense
hostilities in an urban area where the
enemy exploits hospitals shelters and
critical
infrastructure would Israel work
continuously with International
organizations and States even reaching
out to them on its own initiative to
find solutions to these challenges if it
were seeking to destroy the
population Israel's efforts to mitigate
the ravages of this war on civilians are
the very opposite of intent to destroy
them under these
circumstances far from being the only
inference that could reasonably be drawn
from Israel's pattern of
conduct intent to commit genocide is not
even a plausible
inference Madam president members of the
court that concludes my statement I
thank you for your kind attention and I
ask that you you now invite Mr sender to
the
podium I thank Miss rodwan and I invite
Mr om sender to address the court you
have the
floor thank you Madame President members
of the Court it is an honor to appear
before you today on behalf of the state
of Israel
it falls to me to address the condition
of risk of irreparable harm and
urgency this third condition is of
course dependent on the two preceding
ones Professor Shaw and M rajuan have
already shown that the provisions relied
upon by the applicant do not afford even
Prima fasi a basis on which this Court's
Jurisdiction could be
founded they also showed that the rights
asserted by the applicant cannot be
regarded as
plausible it follows that the
irreparable consequences cannot in the
present case be caused by the alleged
disregard of rights under the genocide
convention again this is not at all to
say that the humanitarian situation
arising from the present armed conflict
is not
grave civilians have been severely
affected by the hostilities instigated
by
Hamas its systematic strategy of
Prosecuting war from under and within
the civilian population exposes
civilians to Great risk and it has
brought about great
suffering Israel has done and is doing a
great deal to alleviate this suffering
in very challenging circumstances
in this regard the factual account
provided by the applicant is once again
entirely one cided the application and
request run no less than
84 pages but they make hardly any
mention of the extraordinary efforts
undertaken by Israel and by a host of
other states and international actors to
improve the humanitarian
situation we again heard vir nothing
from the applicant on this issue
yesterday but this is a critical factor
in the request before you as Miss rajuan
has shown it frustrates any attempt to
establish the necessary special intent
for
genocide it also Bears upon the third
condition established in your case
law Madame President members of the
Court we know from your case law that
the power of the court to indicate
provisional measures will be exercised
only in exceptional
circumstances there needs to be as you
have said a real and imminent risk that
irreparable prejudice will be caused to
the rights claimed before the Court
gives its final
decision your order in the Myanmar case
in which the genocide convention was
also invoked suggests that the adop
option and I quote of concrete measures
aimed specifically in recognizing and
ensuring the right end of quote of the
group in question to exist would mean
that irreparable harm and urgency cannot
be
established precisely such concrete
measures have been taken by Israel which
has been facilitating the provision of
more and more humanitarian assistance
for people people in need throughout the
Gaza
Strip these steps have not only been
increasing so as to meet the developing
situation on the
ground they are continuously undertaken
specifically in order to prevent harm to
the civilian
population these efforts have had an
impact just last week for example with
the assistance of the world food program
it doesn't Aces reopened with the
capacity to produce more than 2 million
breads a
day the world food program has said the
delivery of flour salt sugar and yeast
continues so as to enable more bakeries
to reopen increasing accessibility and
affordability for thousands of
families and since the applicant
mentioned yesterday the number of trucks
entering Gaza each day before and after
the war the accurate average number for
trucks specifically carrying food is 70
trucks a day before the war and 109
trucks a day over the last two weeks all
this information may be found in your
judge's
folder access to water has also been a
priority as with Food Supplies there is
no restriction on the the amount of
water that may enter
Gaza Israel continues to supply its own
water to Gaza by two
pipelines it facilitates the delivery of
bottled water in large
quantities and it repairs and indeed
expands water infrastructure that has
been damaged by the
fighting an additional water pipe
bringing water into Southern Gaza from
Egypt began operating a few few weeks
ago access to medical supplies and
services is also
growing Israel has so far facilitated
the establishment of four field
hospitals and two floating
hospitals the establishment of two more
hospitals is
underway Israel is facilitating the
entry of Medical Teams into Gaza as also
vaccinations including in cooperation
with
UNICEF is ill and wounded persons are
being evacuated through the Rafa border
crossing to Egypt the United Arab
Emirates turkey Qatar and
Jordan tents and winter equipment are
being distributed as
well the constant delivery of fuel and
cooking gas is also
facilitated according to official data
again in your judges folders from 8
December the amount of fuel entering
Gaza has doubled and currently stands at
180,000 liters a
day this is a target amount requested by
the UN
itself since 21 December the amount of
cooking gas entering Gaza has also
doubled now standing at an average of 90
tons per
day details of this kind con concerning
the various ongoing humanitarian efforts
are updated every single day on a
designated English website of Kat the
unit in the ministry of Defense in
charge of monitoring the humanitarian
situation when pressing needs are
identified Solutions are soon
coordinated a great effort is indeed
invested in eliminating bottlenecks
so as to improve the entrance and
distribution of Aid not withstanding
Hamas constantly stealing
it as you have heard a joint operations
room involving Israel Egypt the United
States and the UN operates daily to
solve in real time logistical
difficulties Israel also coordinates
with various un agen genes and the icrc
to address their own
needs on 15 December Israel decided to
open its Crossing at km Shalom with the
express intention to improve and upgrade
the delivery of humanitarian assistance
to Palestinian civilians in Gaza that
part of the government's decision is in
your judge's folder as
well this has eased congestion at the
Rafa Crossing and helped facilitate the
provision of Greater amounts of
Aid Israel facilitates air rots as well
for Paris shooting Aid directly into
Gaza facilitating a maritime Corridor is
currently being considered with other
states Madame President members of the
court again these are just some
examples but they show that Israel no
doubt meets the legal test of concrete
measures aimed specifically at
recognizing and ensuring the rights of
the Palestinian civilians in Gaza to
exist it has been the daily work of
numerous Israeli officials of various
agencies to ensure that these and other
steps are effectively carried out at a
time when they and their families are
themselves under constant
attack a
determination that the multilateral
large-scale humanitarian effort is
lacking or that scaling up access of
humanitarian relief to Gaza would be of
no avail as the applicant would have you
believe should not be made
lightly Madame President members of the
Court two additional elements warrant
your careful attention
they too suggest that the condition of
urgency is not as easily met as the
applicant would have you
believe
First the scope and intensity of the
hostilities has been
decreasing Israel's defense minister
said last week that Israeli forces would
be shifting from the intense maneuvering
phase of the war toward and I quote
different types of special operation
ations this statement made in an
interview to International media is
found at tab 16a of the volume
submitted this week on 8 January the
spokesperson for the Israeli military
confirmed that the Israeli campaign had
already started a transition to fewer
ground troops and fewer air
strikes the war shifted a stage he
said as you will see in tab 16b of the
volume he spoke of a new and less
intense phase of
fighting he specifically mentioned that
Israel will continue to reduce the
number of troops in
Gaza five
brigades consisting of thousands of
soldiers have already been withdrawn
from the
territory second
the UN Security Council has only
recently adopted a resolution for the
specific purpose of alleviating the
humanitarian
situation by resolution
2720 of 22 December which is found at
tab 16 C of the volume the council
demanded the immediate and unconditional
release of all
hostages as well as the delivery of
humanitarian assistance at scale
directly to the Palestinian civilian
population throughout the Gaza
Strip more specifically still the
council requested the Secretary General
to appoint a senior coordinator in order
to establish a un mechanism for
accelerating the provision of
humanitarian relief Consignments to
Gaza contrary to what we heard yesterday
this resolution does not and I quote
remain
unimplemented close quote a senior
coordinator has been appointed and
indeed began her work the council
remains actively seized of the
matter Israel for its part is already
working with the senior
coordinator and it has just this week
coordinated the entrance of a un
delegation into to Northern Gaza in
order to evaluate the situation and map
the needs for a future return of
Palestinian
civilians I recall in this connection
that in the agnc case the court found
that it was not necessary to indicate
provisional measures where the
government in question showed
willingness to act in accordance with
the recommendations of the security
Council concerning the matter before the
the
court all these recent developments
indicate that the facts as they
presently exist do not call for awarding
interim
relief they also suggest that the
difference between the present case and
earlier cases that have come before you
are very
clear
finally the lack of urgency within the
meaning of the Court's case law
is further demonstrated by assurances
provided before you today by Israel's
co-agents they could not be clearer in
stating that Israel remains bound at all
times by its International legal
obligations needless to say this
includes Israel's obligations as a state
party to the genocide
convention the applicant
will have this court say that it cannot
take the word of a
state that would be not only
unfortunate it would also be contrary to
the law on unilateral Declarations of
States
unsurprisingly your consistent case law
suggests that assurances of the kind
offered by Israel May well render the
indication of provisional measures
unnecessary
Neary Madame President members of the
Court the conclusion is that the
condition of irreparable prejudice and
urgency cannot be
met it is Israel and its citizens who
would risk irreparable harm if the
request of South Africa were to be
granted Madame President distinguished
members of the Court that concludes my
statement I thank you for your kind
attention and I ask that you now invite
Mr ster to the
podium I thank Mr sender and I now
invite Mr Christopher Staker to take the
floor you have the floor
sir Madame President Mr Vice President
members of the Court
it's an honor to appear before you again
and to represent the state of Israel
you've now been addressed on why the
conditions for provisional measures are
not
met that being so there's no need to
examine the nine particular measures
that South Africa
requests nonetheless for completeness I
will address each in turn and show that
their terms are unwarranted in any event
they go beyond what is necessary to
protect rights on an interim basis and
therefore also have no link with the
rights sought to be
protected I start with the first and
second requested
measures these would require immediate
suspension of Israel's military
operations in
Gaza this request is frankly
astonishing a request is made by a state
not party to an ongoing
Conflict for provisional measures
requiring unilateral suspension of
military operations by one party to the
conflict
only leaving the other party free to
continue
attacks which it has a stated intention
to
do South Africa cannot argue that
similar measures were granted in the
Russia genocide case that case was
fundamentally
different in the Russia case the
legality of the military operation
itself was in issue by reference to the
genocide
convention Russia had claimed that its
military operation was to prevent and
punish genocide being committed in
Ukraine the court found it doubtful that
the genocide convention authorizes a
unilateral Force unilateral use of force
in the territory of another state and
plausible that Ukraine had a right not
to be subjected to military operations
by Russia for that
purpose the result provisional measures
could protect a plausible right not to
be subjected to military
operations in this case Israel does not
rely on on the genocide convention or
prevention of genocide to justify its
operations the lawfulness of the
operations themselves does not involve
any
interpretation application or
fulfillment of the convention over which
the court has
jurisdiction as jurisdiction in this
case is based solely on article 9 of the
convention the court cannot find that
South Africa or Palestinians in Gaza
have a plausible right of the kind in
the Russia
case article 41 of the statute empowers
only such provisional measures as the
circumstances require to preserve the
respective rights of either
party in the Russia case a suspension of
military operations might have been
necessary to preserve a right not to be
subjected to military
operations but in this case the right in
issue is South Africa's claimed right to
ensure observance of the genocide
convention it's absurd to suggest that
the only way to ensure observance of the
genocide convention in a military
operation is to prevent the operation
from being conducted at all in order
according to South Africa to secure
the humanitarian response and avoid yet
more unnecessary death and
destruction that goes beyond preventing
genocide South Africa appears to argue
that the military operations as such are
genocidal but how has South Africa
established a plausible claim that this
is
so Mr hassim argued only that it's
plausible quote that at least some if
not all of these alleged acts fall
within the convention's
provisions how does at least some acts
turn into the military operations as
such the picture shown yesterday of
various individual incidents whatever
they may or may not say about those
incidents are not evidence of the intent
of the military operations as a
whole Professor Shaw has addressed you
on why the statements of holders of
official positions relied on by South
Africa do not establish a plausible
claim of genocidal
intent the inevitable fatalities and
human suffering of any conflict is not
of itself a pattern of conduct that
plausibly shows genocidal intent
these provisional measures are therefore
not within the Court's power under
article 41 of the statute they go well
beyond anything required to preserve the
specific rights in issue namely the
observance of the convention in military
operations they seek instead to shut
down the military operations themselves
the requested measures seek to reverse
the Bosnia case when provisional
measures were ordered in that case the
armed conflict was still in progress the
allegations in that case were similar to
those made in this case Bosnia and herzo
specifically requested a provisional
measure requiring Yugoslavia to cease
and desist from any and all types of
military or paramilitary activities
against the people's state and
government of Bosnia and herzo but the
court did not Grant it even though
unlike in this case an ongoing genocide
was said to be in progress on the
territory of the very State seeking
provisional measures and both parties to
the conflict were parties to the
case the court said expressly that it
refused because such a measure would be
for the protection of a right that could
not form the basis of a judgment in
exercise of jurisdiction under the
genocide
convention there is no reason to depart
from that case
law in any event provisional measures
cannot be indicated if as in this case
they would cause irreparable Prejudice
to the respondent or are out of
proportion with the protection that
they're intended to give to the
applicant the fact is that provisional
measures impose
burdens on the party to which they are
addressed
in order to protect potentially
non-existent rights of another party it
would be contrary to The Sovereign
equality of states for such burdens to
be imposed without regard to their
effects on the state to which they are
addressed as judge Abraham said in the
pulp Mills case in a request for
provisional measures the court is faced
with conflicting rights claimed by the
respective parties and cannot avoid
weighing those rights against each other
in the financing of terrorism convention
case judge tomka said that the court
when considering requests for
provisional measures is expected to
weigh and balance the respective rights
of the parties he went on to note citing
specific examples that this requirement
has been observed in the Court's
practice the court has made clear in
other provisional measures orders that
it must preserve the respective rights
of both parties its established Juris
Prudence is that article 41 of the
statute quote has as its object the
preservation of the respective rights
claimed by the parties unquote that is
to say both parties the respective
rights to be preserved are thus not only
the plausible but yet to be determined
rights claimed by the applicant but also
the plausible and yet to be determined
rights of the respondent to engageing
conduct that provisional measures would
restrain other International dispute
settlement fora also balanced the
interests of both parties when ordering
provisional
measures already a century ago a mixed
arbitral tribunal recognized a principle
that the possible injury to the addresse
of provisional measures must not be out
of proportion with the advantage which
the claimant hopes to derive from them
The Institute of international law has
now recognized a general principle of
law that International and National
courts and tribunals may Grant interim
relief and as a requirement for such
measures that the risk of injury to the
applicant must outweigh the risk of
injury to the
respondent this principle is also recog
ized by other International dispute
settlement
mechanisms other principles applied When
indicating provisional measures are that
none of the parties can be put at a
disadvantage that measures should not go
beyond what is necessary to achieve
their end that the measures must not
cause irreparable Prejudice to the
rights of the respondent and that any
impression of bias must be avoided these
principles are all aspects of the most
basic and element duty of the court to
ensure equality between the parties
article 41 of the statute states that
provisional measures are to preserve the
respective rights of either party it
does not refer solely to the rights of
the applicant for provisional
measures not to apply such principles
would be absurd suppose that the
genocide convention and the court had
already been in existence during the
second World War and that the Allied
Powers were all parties to the
convention without reservation while the
Axis powers were not supposed that a
neutral state had brought proceedings
against the Allied Powers alleging
breaches of the genocide convention and
their conduct of hostilities and
requesting provisional measures
requiring the Allies to cease
hostilities immediately invoking
pictures of Civilian fatalities and
suffering in the war as a plausible
claim such provisional measures would
have required the Allies to surrender to
the A's Powers even though the case
against them might later have been held
to be wholly unfounded without any
consideration by the court of whether
genocide was being committed by the AIS
Powers provisional measures must have
their limits could a provisional measure
require a state to change its government
or to vote in a particular way in the
general assembly the answer must be no
can provisional measures require a state
to refrain from exercising a plausible
right to defend itself the answer must
be the same in this case the balancing
of interests must take into account the
following first Hamas is considered to
be a terrorist organization by Israel
and other states second it's Undisputed
that on 7 October Hamas committed on his
Israeli territory a largescale terrorist
attack this is continuing third Israel's
right to conduct the military operations
in exercise of its right to defend
itself has been recognized
internationally fourth Israel is
committed to complying with
International humanitarian law and fifth
Israel is taking steps to alleviate the
humanitarian situation the co-agents and
other Council have and will address you
on this six this is not a case where
provisional measures could require both
parties to a conflict to exercise Mutual
restraint they would not be binding on
Hamas seventh Hamas has made clear its
intention to uh to carry out continuing
attacks against Israel and its
citizens eighth provisional measures
would deprive Israel of the ability to
contend with this security threat
against it more Rockets could be fired
into its territory more of its citizens
could be taken hostage raped and
tortured and further atrocities could be
conducted from across the gazan border
but provisional measures would prevent
Israel from doing anything ninth
provisional measures would end attempts
to rescue those already taken hostage
10th suspension of military operations
would give hus space to preserve and
build its capabilities enabling it to
pose an even greater threat and to use
remaining hostages as bargaining chips
if granted the result would be this an
organization recognized internationally
as terrorist has committed a terrorist
atrocity in the territory of a state and
a third state now seeks an order from
this court that would prevent the attack
state from responding but which would
impose no obligation on those
responsible for the attack
the requested measures would not put an
end to the conflict but only to military
operations by one party to the conflict
these measures would assist the other
party and encourage the commission of
further terrorist attacks in this
respect also the Russia case is
fundamentally distinguishable from this
case provisional measures should be a
temporary Shield to preserve claimed but
as yet unproven rights pending a
decision on the merits instead they're
being used here as a sword to give an
advantage to one party in a conflict
over another the irreparable Prejudice
to Israel is obvious so is the lack of
proportionality Madame President members
of the Court Israel's position is that
there is no conceivable basis on which
the first two provisional measures could
be
ordered I turn then to the third
requested measure this was would require
Israel to take all reasonable measures
to prevent
genocide this is analogist to the first
provisional measure in both the Bosnia
case and the Myanmar case there are two
further objections to this measure first
its wording is not confined to the
current military operations in Gaza it's
expressed to apply in relation to the
Palestinian people generally this opens
the possibility to later claims that
actions by Israel having nothing to do
with Gaza are in breach of this
provisional measure while the convention
obligation to prevent genocide may not
be confined to current operations in
Gaza the subject matter of this case is
there is no justification for the
provisional measure to extend beyond
measure a second obligation on South
Africa as well no reason is given for
this the other requested provisional
measures do not apply to South Africa
why this one is South Africa saying it
may fail to comply with its obligation
to prevent genocide if not compelled to
do so by a provisional measure
unlikely rather through this provisional
measure South Africa appears to seek a
special mandate from the court to act
internationally in relation to
Palestinian issues on the basis that it
seeks to prevent genocide indeed if
South Africa's right to bring these
proceedings was disputed South Africa
might argue that this provisional
measure gives it the right however
provisional measures cannot confer
special mandates on States and no
justification for doing so is
established in any event the third
provisional measure should therefore not
be granted I move on to the fourth
requested measure this would require
Israel to desist from committing acts
within the scope of article two of the
convention there are fundamental
objections to this measure first it has
no counterpart in the provisional
measures ordered in the Bosnia and
Myanmar cases what's the need for this
special novel measure no explanation is
given second it uses the word desist
which implies that violations of the
convention by Israel are occurring it
seeks an implied ruling on the merits in
the Bosnia case you declin to Grant a
provisional measure requested by Bosnia
and herzo that Yugoslavia must cease and
desist from all acts of genocide you
should also refuse this request it's one
thing to call on a state to comply with
its obligations under the convention
it's quite another to imply that a state
has failed to do so while provisional
measures are without prejudice to the
merits such an implied finding will
tarnish the reputation of the respondent
state which is not only unprincipled but
also unnecessary within the meaning of
article 41 of the statute statute to
protect claimed rights on an interim
basis third this measure refers to acts
within the scope of Article 2 of the
convention now although an act is not
within the scope of Article 2 unless
it's committed with genocidal intent the
proposed wording leaves scope for South
Africa subsequently to argue that the
words mean only the acts themselves
whether committed with genocidal intent
or not on that interpretation
the effect would be to shut down
Israel's military operation every
killing or wounding of an opposing
combatant by Israeli forces every
collateral civilian casualty no matter
how lawful under International
humanitarian law would be a breach of
this provisional measure even Security
checks by Israeli forces of humanitarian
Aid entering Gaza in accordance with
International humanitarian law as
recognized by Security Council
resolution
2720 might be argued to be a breach the
the request for this measure should be
rejected for the same reasons as the
first and second
measures I next address the fifth
requested measure this specifies types
of Acts to be regarded as deliberately
inflicting conditions of Life calculated
to bring about physical Destruction for
purposes of the fourth provisional
measure this measure is also
objectionable first it's not a
freestanding measure measure but an
elaboration of paragraph C of the fourth
measure if the fourth measure is not
Grant granted then the fifth measure
Falls away secondly no analogous
provision is found in the provisional
measures order in the Bosnia and mianmar
cases and no special need for such a new
measure is established third it again
uses the word desist fourth it seeks
further impermissible implied rulings on
the merits for instance it refers refers
to so-called expulsion and forc
displacement of Palestinians from their
homes this is an apparent reference to
Israel's practice of ising calls for
civilians to temporarily evacuate areas
of intense hostilities which is in fact
a measure to mitigate harm to civilians
this measure thus seeks the Court's
ruling that evacuation calls amount to
expulsion and forc displacement of
Palestinians from their
homes does South Africa suggests that
Israel should cease giving warnings to
civilians before military operations how
would that protect the rights that South
Africa
claims similarly paragraph C of this
measure seeks the Court's ruling that
damage to buildings and military
operations presumably even when lawful
under International humanitarian law
amount to the destruction of Palestinian
life in Gaza overall paragraphs a to c
of this measure read together with
paragraph C of the third measure seek
the Court's ruling on the merits that
evacuation calls the current
humanitarian situation and damage to
buildings all amount to deliberately
inflicting on the group conditions of
life within the meaning of article 2C of
the
convention the reality is that the
conflict and the humanitarian situation
cannot be resolved
overnight this provisional measure seems
designed to ensure that Israel will be
in breach of it as soon as has made its
sole purpose seems to be to Prejudice
the merits not to preserve rights on an
interim basis it should also not be
granted the sixth requested measure
incorporates two separate measures the
first of these would require Israel to
ensure that its military and
organizations and persons subject to its
control do not commit acts falling
within articles 2 or three of the
convention it's analogous to the second
provisional measure in the Bosnian and
Myanmar cases
respectively um but an objection to this
is the reference to any irregular armed
units or individuals that may be
directed supported or otherwise
influenced by Israel this wording has
simply been copied from the second
provisional measure in the Bosnia and
Myanmar cases however in those cases the
applications instituting proceedings
expressly alleged the existence of
irregular armed units the reference is
inappropriate in this case there's no
suggestion of forces other than the
Israel Defense Forces on Whose
commitment to International humanitarian
law you have and will be addressed on
today the second part of the sixth
provisional measure contains an
obligation to punish genocide no such
provision was included in the Bosnia or
Myanmar provisional measures order
punishment of genocide is not something
that needs to be done urgently in order
to protect claim rights on a provisional
basis this measure should also not be
granted the seventh provisional measure
also comprises two separate measures the
first would require Israel to take
measures to prevent destruction of
evidence the court has indicated such a
measure on two recent occasions but
declined to do so on two other recent
occasions despite a specific request by
the applicant in the cases where it was
granted the application for provisional
measures specifically alleged that
evidence was being destroyed or
concealed in this case South Africa
makes just a bare assertion that there
are serious concerns about the
destruction of evidence and its effect
on future investigation into crimes and
a hampering of scrutiny of Israel's
actions South Africa appears to suggest
that the effects of the military
operations themselves amount to
destruction of evidence making this yet
a further provisional measure
effectively seeking a suspension of
military operations the granting of this
measure would imply that there is some
reason to suspect concealment of
evidence when in fact none has been
identified this again would be an
unprincipled and unnecessary tarnishing
of
reputation the second part of this
measure would require Israel not to
impede access to Gaza by fact-f finding
Missions International mandates and
other bodies however it is noted first
that access to Gaza from Egypt is under
the control of Egypt secondly is Israel
has no obligation under international
law to allow access from its territory
into Gaza thirdly a provisional measure
to this effect was requested by the
applicant in the Myanmar case and it was
not granted by the court the need for
this measure has not been
established the eighth requested measure
would require Israel to submit regular
reports to the court on measures taken
to give effect to the provisional
measures Provisions for such reports
were made in two recent provisional
measures orders but on four other
occasions it was refused despite being
specifically requested by the applicant
this shows that such measures are not
routinely granted they've been granted
occasionally when specific action has
been indicated in Armenia versus aeran
the court said that a report was
necessary in view of the specific
provisional measures it's decided to
indicate and in light of the
undertakings made by the agent of
aeran South Africa does not justify the
inclusion of such a measure there is no
shortage of publicly available Israeli
material and reports about the present
situation in
Gaza finally the ninth requested measure
is a non- aggravation measure on two
recent occasions such a measure was
specifically requested by the applicant
but not granted by the court again such
a measure is not the norm and again
South Africa does not justify its
necessity provisional measures for non
aggrav ation have been indicated in
cases where both parties have been
directly involved as actors in The Facts
of the case and the
provision an obligation of non-
aggravation cannot fairly be imposed on
only one party to a case or only one
party to a conflict if the proposed
measure was granted South Africa would
remain free to aggravate its claim
dispute with Israel and Hamas would not
be impeded from escalating the conflict
with isra is the only purpose of this
provisional measure appears to be to
prevent Israel from responding to any
such escalations again there's no
justification for this
measure Madame President members of the
court that concludes my arguments on the
inappropriateness of the specific
measures requested by South Africa I
thank you for your careful attention I
invite you to call on Mr Noam co-agent
of Israel to conclude his is's
arguments I thank Mr Staker and I now
invite the co-agent of Israel Mr gilad
Noam to address the court you have the
floor
sir Madame President members of the
courts Council have shown that the
applicant has failed to make the case
for the indication of provisional
measures more
specifically one the court Lacks FAS
jurisdiction as the applicant has not
shown any dispute between itself and the
respondent at the time the application
was
submitted indeed it tried to mislead the
court into believing that one had
existed two the applicant has failed to
meet the condition of plausible rights
to be protected in the present
circumstances three the simple reality
is that the events which are the subject
of these proceedings are occurring in
the framework of a war instigated by
Hamas governed by the legal framework of
international humanitarian law they do
not fall within the remit of the
genocide
convention four the standard of
irreparable harm and urgency is not met
either Israel is constantly taking
concrete steps
together with others to address the
humanitarian situation in
Gaza five finally we have shown that
each of the provisional measures sought
are unwarranted and
prejudicial all this requires that we
give attention to two fundamental
matters arising from these
proceedings the first is that the
applicant seeks to portray an image of
Israel as a lawless state that regards
itself as Beyond and above the
law the applicant paints an image of
Israel as a state in which the entire
Public Service military and Society
having concert discarded Israel's
long-standing commitment to law and
morality and become singularly consumed
with destroying an entire
population that is parly false
I can attest to that firsthand as the
deputy attorney general for
international
law in this position I regularly advise
the government on issues of
international law including humanitarian
law this has not changed since October
7th the conflict the conflict with Hamas
poses serious operational and legal
challenges in conducting Close Quarter
Urban combat while mitigating harm to
the surroundings in seeking to put a
stop to Hamas military use of hospitals
while minimizing disruption of medical
services in helping civilians leave
areas of the most intense fighting while
Hamas forces them to stay in the line of
fire in facilitating the provision of
Aid when that Aid is constantly stolen
by Hamas to sustain its military efforts
in balancing humanitarian considerations
with the need to act forcefully against
an adversary that steal fire Rockets
deep into our country and holds our
citizens
hostage as the authority responsible for
international law advice to Israel's
government and cabinet I can attest that
in contending with these challenges
Israel remains committed to
international
law when the canons Roar in Gaza the law
is not
silent this has been the case since
Israel's establishment in 1948 the same
year the genocide convention was adopted
Israel's commitment to the rule of law
has remained steadfast throughout our
history despite the complex challenges
we face as a
nation it reflects the commitments made
at the time the state was established as
reflected in our Declaration of
Independence which makes Express
reference to the principles of the
charter of the United
nations in 1948 to Israel was at War
forced upon it yet despite being engaged
in a war for its
survival the young State gave great
importance to immediately establishing
an effective independent and impartial
legal
system indeed one of the first steps the
newly AFF formed IDF took in the midst
of a war was to establish a military
justice system
this system has evolved evolved into an
integral part of the institutional
structure of the
IDF thus the IDF military Advocate
General holds the highest rank in the
IDF save the chief of staff and it and
is institutionally independent from the
military chain of command her staff
including international law experts are
interwoven into all aspects of the
military's
activities they provide legal training
and education they are involved in the
Drafting and preparation of military
plans and
doctrines and they provide ongoing legal
advice on a range of issues including
targeting weaponry and obligations
towards the enemy's civilian
population this Remains the case in the
current
conflict the civilian legal system
including my department in the ministry
of Justice served serves as an Avenue of
review for the military legal
system the Attorney General stands at
the head of the civilian legal
system in this position she too enjoys
full institutional
Independence at all times the do of the
doors of to Israel's courts including
Israel's Supreme Court remain open this
court is widely acknowledged for its
willingness to consider issues
pertaining to to the conduct of
hostilities including ongoing
hostilities indeed during the current
conflict the court has already
considered petitions on different
aspects of the
war Israel's legal system also ensures
accountability the IDF has a robust law
enforcement system it also maintains an
independent mechanism for examining and
investigating alleged violations of
intern AAL humanitarian
law this mechanism is subject to review
and oversight by the civilian Justice
System including the Supreme
Court this system has been structurally
strengthened over the past decade
including by consultations with
like-minded States and international
experts assessing incidents in large
scale hostilities outside of a state's
territory requires
expertise our system is provided with
substantial resources and authority to
fulfill its
Mission the military mechanism is
already reviewing incidents relating to
the current
conflict the rule of law remains a
foundational pillar of the state of
Israel the applicant defames not only
Israel's leadership but also Israeli
Society Mr represented a selective
assortment of statements to suggest
genocidal intentions and the abdication
of core moral
values Israel's Council Professor Shaw
addressed this
claim the shock anxiety and deep pain
that have affected Israeli Society since
October 7th naturally lead to harsh
statements regarding the enemy that is
committed to indeed driven by
destruction of Jews and
Israelis but our legal system knows how
to draw a line between statements that
may be troubling and even
obscene but fall within the right of
freedom of speech in a Democratic
Society and those statements which go
beyond that
right as the Attorney General reaffirmed
publicly recently any statement calling
for intentional harm to civilians
contradicts the policy of the state of
Israel and may amount to a criminal
offense including the offense of
incitement several such cases are
currently being examined by Israeli law
enforcement
authorities you will find this statement
in tab 16d in the
volume Madame President members of the
Court a second General matter we alluded
to is the broader implications of this
application for Israel and The Wider
International
Community as we have shown this case
concerns a large scale armed conflict
with tragic consequences for civilian on
both
sides yes there is a heart-wrenching
armed conflict but the attempt to
classifi it as genocide and Trigger
provisional measures is not just
unfounded in law it has far-reaching and
negative implications that extend well
beyond the case before
you ultimately intertaining the
applicant's request will not strengthen
the commitment to prevent and punish
genocide but weaken it it will turn an
instrument adopted by the International
Community to prevent horrors of the kind
that shocked the conscience of humanity
during the
Holocaust into a weapon in the hands of
terrorist groups who have no regard for
Humanity or for the
law if every resort to force in
self-defense against an enemy hiding
behind civilians can be portrayed as
genocide and Trigger provisional
measures
an inevitable tension will be created
between the genocide convention and
States defending themselves against the
ever increasing capacities of terrorist
organizations doing so would also signal
to terrorist organizations that they can
commit war crimes and crimes against
humanity and then exploit this court to
obtain
protection for
us provisional measures would lead to a
perverse
situation it would effectively allow
Hamas to continue attacking the citizens
of Israel to hold 136 hostages in
unbearable conditions to keep tens of
thousands of displaced Israelis from
returning to their homes and essentially
to promote its plan to Massacre as many
Israelis and Jews as it
can Madame President members of the
court in living memory of the atrocities
that gave birth through the term
genocide in the aftermath of which the
state of Israel was founded we are
witnessed we are witness to a concerted
and cynical effort to pervert the
meaning of the term genocide
itself the genocide convention is too
important a foundation in Humanity's
aspiration to defeat barbarism and evil
to be belittled in this way and the
faith that has been placed in
international law and its institutions
is to sh cherished an asset to be
squandered we appeal to this court not
to be taken down that dangerous
road Madame President members of the
court for all the above reasons Israel
requests the court in accordance with
article 60 paragraph 2 of the rules of
the court for the reasons given during
the hearing of January 12th
2024 and any other reasons the court
might deem appropriate one to reject the
request for the indication of
provisional measures submitted by the
applicant two to remove the case from
its list Madame President and members of
the court that concludes Israel's
observations thank you for your kind
attention I thank the coagent of Israel
whose statement brings to an end the
single round of oral argument of Israel
as well as the present series of of
sitting in accordance with the usual
practice I shall request the Agents of
both parties to remain at the Court's
disposal to provide any additional
information the court may require the
court will render its order on the
request for the indication of
provisional measures submitted by South
Africa as soon as possible the Agents of
the parties will be advised in due
course as to the date on which the court
will deliver the order in public sitting
since the court has no other business
before it today the sitting is declared
closed
for